well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about what
the entire country
can learn from a football game that took
place in the 1950s
and now that i say that aloud just stick
with me
the game took place on october 20th i
think
1951. there's guy playing
johnny bright johnny was destined for
the heisman
he was going to get it he was favored to
get it but he didn't have it yet had he
got it
he would have been the first black guy
to get the heisman
but on that day something happened he
took a hit
not a normal hit you take playing
football
one that was intentionally malicious
now the guy who hit him claims that it
wasn't racially motivated
he says that he
intentionally did it but he did it
because bright's team had injured
someone on his team the year before
and he was just trying to get even there
is contemporary reporting
from the period that suggests otherwise
bright for his part he says
there's no way it couldn't have been
racially motivated what i like about the
whole deal now
and what i'm smug enough to say is that
getting a broken jaw has somehow made
college
athletics better it made the ncaa take a
hard look
and clean up some things that were bad
he went on to have a career i think the
eagles tried to pick him up but he went
to canada
to play but he didn't get the heisman
because he
got injured was out
but somebody else got a pulitzer
somebody took six photos quick
succession
showed what happened white player
roughing up a black player on the field
it uh became imagery for the civil
rights movement
but see here's the thing about it
a black college athlete in the 1950s
of course they were being mistreated of
course they were being mistreated on the
field
this wasn't new everybody knew it
everybody was aware that it was going on
at least on some level
what changed things was that there was
evidence
there was photographic evidence it was
out in the open there was nothing that
could be said he couldn't turn a blind
eye to it
it happened and there it was
because of that these images energized
the civil rights movement at a time
because at that point in time that was
really what they were trying to do is
just be seen
let people know that bad things were
happening and
just put it in their face this helped do
that
aside from that it made the ncaa as
he said change some rules
change rules about blocking and require
helmets to have
masks they put up some guards to make
sure that it didn't happen
again
so what's this have to do with the u.s
right
i think that everybody in the country
knows
that the executive branch is taking too
much power have been
for real long time you're aware of it on
some
level that the presidency is becoming
too
powerful
donald trump just punched america in the
jaw
on film that's what happened
out in the open couldn't deny it shoved
in your face there it is
this is what's going on
he broke america's jaw
doesn't have to be career ending though
for the country
the country can go on to have a career
the country can survive this but more
importantly
are we going to be as responsive as the
ncaa
are we going to change some rules put up
some guards to make sure this doesn't
happen
again put some things in place
to protect ourselves
or do we need to get hit in the face
again
does the country need their jaw broken
or can we learn from it now that
everybody's seen it
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day